fix: config engine fixes (TokenizationSpoke ProxyAdmin owner, role relabeling, position manager action ordering) (#1321)
aave/aave-v4: src/config-engine/README.md

Based on experience reviewing governance payloads for Aave V3, the config engine provides a type-safe, composable interface that covers the most common administrative operations: Hub configuration, Spoke configuration, AccessManager role management, and PositionManager administration.

> The engine itself is **stateless** — it never stores data of its own. Payloads invoke it via `delegatecall`, so every external call the engine makes executes in the governance executor's context (`address(this)`) and with the executor's permissions. See [Execution context](#execution-context) for the full topology — in particular, `msg.sender` is the PayloadsController and must never be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine itself is **stateless** — it never stores data of its own. Payloads invoke it via `delegatecall`, so every external call the engine makes executes in the governance executor's context and with the executor's permissions. See [Execution context](#execution-context) for the full topology.
```

Reviewer 2: 782c28e60b1144bd41ffc38b5826a3e1f6f4e476

#### Hub actions (`_executeHubActions`)

| Function                      | Struct                  | Purpose                                                                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `hubAssetListings()`          | `AssetListing`          | List a new asset on a Hub. Optionally deploys a TokenizationSpoke if `tokenization` is set (`name`, `symbol` and `proxyAdminOwner` are then all required). |

Reviewer 3: i dont think we need proxy admin owner as a requirement, i would keep it optional, have AaveV4Payload constructor take in defaultOwner (which is executor)

Reviewer 3: actually prob config engine should always set executor as owner, its not fine if its configurable

Author: so it's fine as is, or you'd like to see some change here?

Reviewer 3: typo, its NOT fine as is, i dont think it should be configurable

Author: who should be the owner then? we don't have address book here. we can use the owner of the hub proxy admin, but not sure I prefer that over the current approach

Reviewer 2: I think he means calls to the deploy fct should always pass `address(this)` => the Executor.

Reviewer 3: executor, as i said above, either similar similar to v3 which is call on configurator which deploys with owner, or keep it as an immutable on the payload contract which is passed to the engine

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/aave-dao/aave-v3-origin/blob/main/src/contracts/extensions/v3-config-engine/AaveV3ConfigEngine.sol#L25-L26

Reviewer 3: > I think he means calls to the deploy fct should always pass address(this) => the Executor.

also possible, yes. either approach works

Reviewer 2: 96e56a378f6fd343999e48a2a9e1f7aeab6a6285

> | `hubAssetListings()`          | `AssetListing`          | List a new asset on a Hub. Optionally deploys a TokenizationSpoke if `tokenization` is set (`name`, `symbol` and `proxyAdminOwner` are then all required). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `hubAssetListings()`          | `AssetListing`          | List a new asset on a Hub. Optionally deploys a TokenizationSpoke if all tokenization params are set (`name`, `symbol` and `proxyAdminOwner`). |
```

Reviewer 2: 3abcb3c48fb4730e625da148ed2d74b588e1e112

   5. Dynamic reserve config updates
   6. Position manager updates
5. **PositionManager actions** (in order):

>    1. Role renouncements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Spoke PositionManager Role renouncements
```

Reviewer 2: 782c28e60b1144bd41ffc38b5826a3e1f6f4e476

   2. Spoke registrations

>    Renouncements run first because renouncing requires the Spoke to still be registered on the position manager — this allows renouncing and deregistering the same Spoke in one payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Spoke PositionManager role renouncements run first because renouncing requires the Spoke to still be registered on the position manager — this allows renouncing and deregistering the same Spoke in one payload.
```

Reviewer 2: 782c28e60b1144bd41ffc38b5826a3e1f6f4e476

When a payload calls `execute()`, `AaveV4Payload` delegate-calls into `AaveV4ConfigEngine`, which in turn delegate-calls into the appropriate sub-engine. This two-level delegatecall chain means:

- Neither the config engine nor the sub-engines hold any storage, permissions, or admin keys.
- All HubConfigurator, SpokeConfigurator, AccessManager, and PositionManager calls originate from the governance executor's address.

### Execution context

In production the payload itself executes via delegatecall: the PayloadsController **calls** `Executor.executeTransaction`, which **delegatecalls** `payload.execute()`. Since `msg.sender` is preserved across delegatecall, for all engine code:

> - `address(this)` is the **Executor** — this is the identity holding permissions, and the address external calls originate from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `address(this)` is the **Executor**. It is the identity holding permissions, and the address external calls originate from.
```

Reviewer 2: ffceac91647a60c11b9423222cb58ca07fca9e6d

> - `msg.sender` is the **PayloadsController** — it must never be used, for ownership, permissions, or anything else. Deriving an owner from `msg.sender` is how the Paxos deployment shipped TokenizationSpoke ProxyAdmins owned by the PayloadsController; any address a deployment or configuration needs (e.g. `TokenizationSpokeConfig.proxyAdminOwner`) must be passed explicitly in the action structs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `msg.sender` is the **PayloadsController**. It must never be used, for ownership, permissions, or anything else. Deriving an owner from `msg.sender` is bad practice: any address a deployment or configuration needs (e.g. `TokenizationSpokeConfig.proxyAdminOwner`) must be passed explicitly in the action structs.
```

Reviewer 2: ffceac91647a60c11b9423222cb58ca07fca9e6d

> - Payload storage is not readable during execution — action data must live in immutables, constants, or literals returned by the overridden virtual functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Payload storage is not readable during execution: action data must live in immutables, constants, or literals returned by the overridden virtual functions.
```

Reviewer 2: ffceac91647a60c11b9423222cb58ca07fca9e6d
